chore(ai): add apm-integrations and llmobs-integrations Claude Code skills (#17903)
DataDog/dd-trace-py: .claude/skills/apm-integrations/SKILL.md

---
name: apm-integrations
description: |
  dd-trace-py integration development guide. Use when creating, modifying, or
  debugging contrib integrations in the Python tracer. Covers the patch module
  system, context_with_data, context_with_event (new), BaseLLMIntegration,
  LLMObs integration layer, streaming, message extraction, testing with riot,
  VCR cassettes, and common anti-patterns. Pin is DEPRECATED.
  Triggers: "dd-trace-py", "ddtrace", "contrib", "integration", "patch.py",
  "trace_handlers", "PATCH_MODULES", "context_with_data", "context_with_event",
  "TracingEvent", "BaseLLMIntegration", "integration.trace", "llmobs_set_tags",
  "_llmobs_set_tags", "BaseStreamHandler", "submit_to_llmobs", "LLM span",
  "VCR", "cassette", "anthropic", "openai", "google_genai", "claude_agent_sdk",
  "generative-ai", "LLM integration", "llmobs_enabled", "llmobs", "LLMObs",
  "riot", "riotfile", "suitespec", "new integration", "wrap", "unwrap".
---

# dd-trace-py APM Integrations

> dd-trace-py provides automatic tracing for 90+ third-party libraries. Each integration uses monkey-patching via `wrapt` to intercept library calls and create spans.

Reviewer: This is inaccurate since not all integrations use `wrapt`. Many use "bytecode wrapping" based on this code: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/blob/main/ddtrace/internal/wrapping/__init__.py

## Architecture

```
Patch Module (ddtrace/contrib/internal/)  -->  Spans + Tags

>   Wraps library methods, creates spans via Pin/tracer or integration.trace()

Reviewer: Pin is deprecated. What's integration.trace?

```

**Standard integrations** use one of these patterns:
- **`context_with_data()` + `trace_handlers.py`** (preferred for existing): Wrappers emit events via `core.context_with_data()`, listeners in `trace_handlers.py` create spans (e.g., botocore, flask, httpx, django).
- **`context_with_event()` + `TracingEvent`** (NEW — preferred for new integrations): Typed event-driven pattern using `core.context_with_event()` with `TracingEvent` subclasses and `TracingSubscriber`. Infrastructure exists in `ddtrace/_trace/events.py` and `ddtrace/_trace/subscribers/`. No contrib integrations use this yet, but new ones should adopt it.
- **`Pin` + `tracer.trace()`** (DEPRECATED — do not use in new integrations): Many existing integrations use `Pin.get_from()` + `tracer.trace()` (e.g., redis, kafka, grpc). Do NOT use Pin in new code.

> **LLM integrations** use `BaseLLMIntegration.trace()` and have a two-layer architecture (see LLM section below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**LLM integrations** use `BaseLLMIntegration.trace()` and have a two-layer architecture (see LLM skill).
```

## Key Concepts

- **`_datadog_patch` guard** -- prevents double-patching on repeated `patch()` calls
- **Pin is DEPRECATED** -- many existing integrations still use `Pin.get_from()` and `Pin().onto()`, but do NOT use Pin in new integrations. Prefer `context_with_event` (new) or `context_with_data` (existing)
- **`config._add()`** -- registers integration config at module level, before `patch()` runs
- **`get_version()` / `_supported_versions()`** -- required exports for version detection
- **`PATCH_MODULES`** -- registration dict in `ddtrace/_monkey.py` for `patch_all()` discovery
- **`INTEGRATION_CONFIGS`** -- frozenset in `ddtrace/internal/settings/_config.py`, required for config to work
- **`registry.yaml`** -- dependency names and tested version range in `ddtrace/contrib/integration_registry/`

## Type Annotations

> dd-trace-py uses mypy for type checking. All new integration code must pass `hatch run lint:typing`.

Reviewer: On current main, this hatch command does not catch type errors in contribs.

**Rules:**
- Every function and method must have full type annotations (parameters + return type)
- `patch() -> None`, `unpatch() -> None`, `get_version() -> str`
- Wrapper functions use the wrapt signature: `def traced_func(wrapped: Callable[..., Any], instance: Any, args: tuple[Any, ...], kwargs: dict[str, Any]) -> Any:`
- Use `Optional[X]` for nullable parameters and return values
- Use parameterized generics: `dict[str, Any]`, `list[str]`, `tuple[Any, ...]` — not bare `dict`, `list`, `tuple`
- Avoid `# type: ignore` unless absolutely necessary (document the reason inline, e.g. `# type: ignore[attr-defined]  # wrapt proxy lacks stubs`)
- Import types from `typing` where needed: `Any`, `Callable`, `Optional`
- Read reference integrations for correct type patterns — match their style

## Reference Integrations

> **Always read 1-2 references of the same type before writing or modifying code.**

Reviewer: I imagine this "always" would be too strict in the case of a first-of-its-kind integration.

All patch modules live in `ddtrace/contrib/internal/{name}/`. See [Reference Integrations](references/reference-integrations.md) for secondary examples and detailed notes.

| Category | Canonical Integration | Pattern |
|----------|----------------------|---------|

> | cache | `redis/patch.py` | Pin + `context_with_data` |

Reviewer: Mentions of Pin seem counterproductive here

| rpc | `grpc/patch.py` | Pin + `tracer.trace` |

---

## LLM Integrations (LLMObs)

LLM integrations have a **two-layer architecture**:

1. **Patch Layer** (`ddtrace/contrib/internal/{name}/patch.py`) -- wraps library functions and creates spans. LLM integrations are migrating to the **LLM events system** using `LLMEvent` subclasses (see [PR #16533](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/pull/16533)). Read `ddtrace/contrib/internal/anthropic/patch.py` for the current events-based pattern.
2. **Integration Layer** (`ddtrace/llmobs/_integrations/{name}.py`) -- extends `BaseLLMIntegration`, implements `_set_base_span_tags()` and `_llmobs_set_tags()` to extract and set LLMObs metadata. This layer remains the same regardless of the patch pattern.

### LLM Key Files

| Purpose | File |
|---------|------|
| Base LLM integration class | `ddtrace/llmobs/_integrations/base.py` (`BaseLLMIntegration`) |
| Stream handler base classes | `ddtrace/llmobs/_integrations/base_stream_handler.py` |
| LLMObs constants | `ddtrace/llmobs/_constants.py` |
| LLMObs types | `ddtrace/llmobs/types.py` (`Message`, `ToolCall`, `ToolResult`, `ToolDefinition`) |

> | Integration registry | `ddtrace/llmobs/_integrations/__init__.py` |

Reviewer 2: This section is a repeat of the table in `.claude/skills/llmobs-integrations/SKILL.md` . Can you just have it invoke `/llmobs-integrations` to get that info?

Reviewer 2: Same as the other sections below this.
